# MLB Single-Game Sports Betting Modeling
___

The objective of this project was to explore the possibility that a model for MLB single-game
win probabilities -- such as the one developed by fangraphs.com (a leader in the field of
baseball data research) -- might surpass the open marketplace probabilities generated by common
American sportsbooks. Should this be true, it would be possible to build a data stream to process
fangraphs and sportsbook odds each morning and place strategic bets as an ongoing strategy.

Two strategies were developed. The first was based on the differential in win probability
published by the 2 sources. The second performed an expected value calculation where -- assuming
the fangraphs model to be correct -- estimated the expected return on a $1 bet on each game.
Each strategy involved selecting a threshold and placing bets on all games where the selected
metric surpassed that threshold

### Results

After analyzing the ~1200 MLB games that had been completed in 2024 before the time of writing,
across a multitude of thresholds, there was zero indication that any strategy could ever yield
success. Hence, it is unlikely that the fangraphs model is fundamentally superior than the
sportbook model.

### Included Scripts/Files

1. **main.py**: contains `daily_odds(date)` which creates a df of all odds on a given date.
`historic_data_gen(n)` calls `daily_odds` iteratively over the past `n` days to create a larger
df. Also contains functions to carry out betting strategies and return profit results
2. **fangraphs_scrape.py**: contains `scrape_fangraphs_odds(date)` which creates a df of
fangraphs projected win probabilities on a given date.
3. **oddstrader_selenium.py**: contains `scrape_oddstrader_results(date)` which creates a df
of oddstrader odds on a given date. (oddstrader compiles a selection of sportsbooks and returns
the one with the best odds for a bettor).
4. **mlb.py**: contains `scrape_fangraphs_results(date)` which creates a df of game win-loss
results from a given day as reported by fangraphs.
5. **odds_data_100.csv**: contains the df created by `historic_data_gen(100)`.

#### Deprecated Scripts

6. **draftkings.py**: early odds scraping script that focused on draftkings.com
7. **oddstrader.py**: early oddstrader scraping script that utilized static BeautifulSoup